Dear all, it is now time for
our Dharma discussion.
At the beginning of this discussion, I will briefly
mention the Qingming Festival, as
we are entering the Qingming month in some
regions of Vietnam. That is,
some regions have a
Qingming Festival, while others don't.
Generally, the
elders believed
that the living have homes and the dead have graves.
That is, the grave is one's home after death.
The living and the deceased have a connection
within the family, whether it's
parents, grandparents, ancestors, or
children. When someone dies,
visiting the grave feels like
getting closer to the deceased,
connecting with them, and expressing
one's feelings
through the tomb. Therefore, this
is a very humane custom.
But what about Buddhist teachings? Does
the deceased truly reside in the grave,
or not? And
if they do,
how do we address the phenomena
related to graves?  And regarding Thanh Minh,
today Yen will briefly explain this point to the public.
After a person leaves their physical body, they are
reborn according to karmic forces.
Where do these karmic forces come from? It's because of their consciousness; if it's
sharp, deeply ingrained, then they die according to
the karmic force of this consciousness. It's
reborn, so we call it consciousness
rebirth. Our consciousness creates
a viewpoint that permeates
our mind, so we will be
reborn according to that very consciousness.
This karmic force is
very deep and thick because of the consciousness and
viewpoint that cannot be broken free from
their mind. For example, in
our lives, from generation to generation, we are the eldest children, and this is
deeply ingrained in our consciousness. When a child
grows up, they are born, they grow up, and
they are instilled with these things. When
they are born as the eldest child, they see themselves as
their own children.
From a young age, they are taught and they themselves become aware of how they do things and how others perceive them.
This person will have a conscious awareness of
their actions and how they perceive
others.  Many things are formed
stemming from a mindset, a perspective
that gives rise to a sense of
responsibility
towards one's children. Whether
this perspective aligns with
Buddhism is
another matter entirely. If, before death, they
didn't create extremely negative karma—not being reborn in hell,
or not being reborn as
animals, or not being reborn in heaven, or
not being reborn as humans but as hungry ghosts (
what we in Vietnam call spirits)
—then they all have a connection to their
graves. Because of that cause,
this effect arises, and throughout their lives,
they continue to cultivate the old habits,
clinging to the graves.
Those who haven't been reborn yet remain in those
graves, which are their homes.
Therefore, there are phenomena like graves
collapsing, causing
family members to suffer from eye pain, or
a tree root penetrating the
coffin, or a
broom causing headaches that cannot be cured.  There's no need to run around; just
go and offer prayers and supplications to the ancestors, or make
changes, and it will naturally go away. It's because
people no longer cling to it; they see that there's
care and attention, and they no
longer hold on. It's a change in
their level of consciousness, that is, the
perception of the spirits and ghosts
changes, and then it naturally changes. That's
why there's an explanation for why some
families suddenly experience this problem,
and after offering prayers and supplications, it naturally goes away. I'm
not talking about
Buddhist prayers; even prayers from other faiths sometimes go away.
But does it
really go away? If it doesn't, it won't.
If it goes away according to superstition, it won't
really go away because in superstition, when the
spirits return, they can't explain it
to people. Therefore,
people don't become enlightened; they
still cling to that grave, and that grave
is affected by the
heavens and earth. The weather changes, and
the grave continues to collapse or
continue to be affected in this way or that way. So, time and
time again, the family...  The
impact is still felt, but Buddhist solutions involve chanting scriptures,
performing rituals, making offerings, and receiving guidance from
monks. People become enlightened,
no longer clinging to the idea that this is their grave or their
home, and they become monks
to achieve liberation.
That is the ultimate solution offered by
Buddhism. As for Qingming Festival, it's a
time to remember our deceased loved ones and
take care of their graves.
If they are still
in the realm of ghosts and spirits, we
cannot see them,
so we must still go and care for them.
If they are still there, they can rest assured. The
Qingming Festival
is about cleaning the graves and keeping them clean. That's the
heartfelt gesture of the living
towards the dead, and we offer thanks to the
deities who govern that area,
helping our loved ones to find
peace and well-being. That's one
perspective. But what about Buddhism?  In
Buddhism, every place and every
temple has its own deities and
spirits with power and authority.
Therefore, when we offer prayers and thanks, if the
spirits of our deceased family members are still present, they
will be able to rely on the power
of those deities. The
Buddhist scriptures teach that if someone makes
offerings, the recipient will protect and guide that
person. So, we go to
our family's graves,
prepare vegetarian offerings, and make offerings to invite
the deities and spirits there. As long as
we don't kill any living beings or do
anything unwholesome, we can still make offerings to them.
Because
the power of these spirits and deities usually arises from good karma and
virtuous deeds. Many powerful spirits and
deities also arise from the
merit of the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha), meaning they have
some connection with the Three Jewels. However, due to
their karma, they haven't been
reborn into other realms as humans
or ascend to heaven, so they become spirits and
deities. These spirits and deities don't experience hunger or thirst.  They are
suffering, and they possess
such power, so we offer sacrifices to them, and then we
make offerings to the Three Jewels, dedicating the merit to express gratitude to
the deities and spirits. In
Vietnam, we call them deities, but
in Buddhism, they are called spirits.
Spirits are demons, meaning they are not in the
human realm, so they are
called the realm of demons. In this spiritual realm, we call it the realm of demons.
But when we call it the realm of demons,
many people don't accept it and call it
deities, so
we also call them deities. On the Golden Cup website, practicing the Six Harmonies, there is a proper ritual offering, including prayers for the deceased. We
can take those prayers and offerings from there.
We pray according to the Dharma
and the spirit of Buddhism. When
we come, we light incense and ask
the deities and spirits who govern the
land, the cemetery, and the burial ground. We ask
who we are, where we are, and what our
relationship is with the deceased here.
Today, we come here to offer
our humble gifts with sincere hearts.  We
offer our offerings, and as
Buddhists, we know that offering to the
Three Jewels brings blessings.
Therefore, we are grateful to the spirits and deities here who
have supported our ancestors. We offer our offerings to the Three Jewels
to
dedicate this merit to the monks, to those who have attained the highest rank,
and to those who have awakened the Bodhi mind to
protect the Three Jewels, so that they may soon be
reborn and practice to become Buddhas.
That is our heart, directed towards all
with great gratitude, wishing that
all those who have been kind to us, all
beings who have been kind to us, may soon be
liberated from the cycle of rebirth. After that,
we also inform our ancestors that
we wish to clean or tidy their graves on the occasion of the
Qingming Festival. So today,
on the Qingming Festival, I
would like to briefly explain the meaning
so that you can understand the
benefits of going to the Qingming Festival. It is
very beneficial; it shows that we
care for the deceased. If
our deceased have not yet been liberated,
this is also a manifestation of our filial piety.
And I hope that when I go to see the deceased,
I will light incense, recite a sutra, and
then give them guidance, saying, "
This is not
death, it's not the end; death still
leads to rebirth." So, if you
cling to this grave, tomorrow there will be an
earthquake and everything will collapse, and you will suffer.
We will take refuge in the Three Jewels,
we will make offerings to the temple so that you
can take refuge in the Three Jewels, listen to the Dharma, and attain enlightenment so that you can practice and
transform your
mind to achieve liberation sooner. That's how
we connect the
customs and traditions of our people
to the liberation in Buddhism,
for ourselves and for all sentient
beings. When we have such a mindset, when we die, we won't cling to the grave; we won't cling to it. We will direct our minds towards the path of liberation, and we will guide
our ancestors towards the path of liberation. We
can live forever. The earth doesn't
exist forever; every place collapses and
erodes. If our ancestors
cling to that place, then every time...  When the land
shakes, the ancestors suffer
because of their attachments and worry.
We can then enlighten the
spirits of our family so they
don't suffer. Yen still encourages
everyone to invite the spirits to chant the
Bai Xam sutra so they can
hear it, and then we can do
good deeds so the spirits can take refuge
in the Three Jewels, listen to the monks' sermons, and
soon attain liberation.
[music]